I learned the truth as a child
and since then have always had to struggle
to conduct myself
in a way that pleases Jehovah.
I don’t find it easy
to control my temper or to keep calm.
When I first arrived in this country,
a brother treated me in an unkind manner
and was not very hospitable.
Because of this,
I started feeling resentment toward him,
so much so
that when he called me on the phone,
I spoke to him very rudely.
My wife had to help me,
reminding me that both the brother
and I are imperfect
and that the feelings I had
toward him were not healthy.
During that time,
I felt awful and really bad
about my relationship with Jehovah.
Discipline is never a cause for joy,
and especially when I receive
a letter from the branch
correcting and counseling me
for something I have not been doing right.
It certainly makes me feel uncomfortable.
But I try to reflect
on the fact that acting
in accord with Jehovah’s wisdom
will bring me blessings.
Prayer to Jehovah, Bible principles,
and trusting that Jehovah
will give me the needed direction
has really helped me.
As the Psalms mention,
Jehovah is aware “that we are dust.”
It’s as if he were saying to me:
“Son, you make so many mistakes,
“but I love you anyway.
“I can use you in my service,
and I know that you will succeed.”
And, of course,
it’s possible because Jehovah
has always helped his servants
—all of them,
from Abel down to our day.
All of us who are serving him
are imperfect people.
One day I was doing some electrical work,
and I was electrocuted.
When the doctor saw me,
he decided that it was necessary
to amputate both my hands.
I had lost my hands!
There was so much I wouldn’t be able to do.
How would I work?
How would I care for my children?
for my wife?
The first thing I asked for was a Bible
to see if I would be able to turn the pages,
and I could!
That made me so happy.
Now I am able to work to support my family.
I work as a painter, welder, and carpenter.
I can even drive myself to and from work.
I have been able
to work on my spiritual goals
as I continue serving Jehovah,
like being an elder in the congregation and,
above all,
helping my family
to continue to grow spiritually.
Keeping myself occupied
with spiritual matters
has meant that I don’t dwell
on my disability.
In fact, sometimes
I even forget that I’m disabled.
Jehovah has always sustained me.
Since the day of the accident,
I have seen how Jehovah God
by means of my family
—my wife and kids—
and the brothers
and sisters in the congregation
has helped me to move on.
Once, after giving a talk,
a young girl came up to me
and gave me a letter
and a drawing she had done of me.
She thanked me and encouraged me
by saying that very soon
Jehovah would give me
my hands back in the Paradise.
Things like that,
like being able to hold my wife’s hand,
my children’s too,
to carry them and play with them,
that’s my hope,
and I have complete confidence
that Jehovah will bring it about.
I was arrested and sentenced
to two and a half years in prison
for my neutrality.
The surroundings in prison
were unfamiliar and overwhelming.
I didn’t know anyone,
and I didn’t know what to expect from them.
I was the only Witness.
I was continually praying
to Jehovah for power and strength
to be able to resolve
any problems in a peaceful manner
and withstand any difficulties.
In that situation, only prayer
and God’s Word brought me comfort.
But then my Bible was taken away from me.
It was returned to me,
though, some time later.
I was allowed to have
literature on one condition:
That I would not preach.
True, preaching wasn’t allowed,
but that didn’t mean
I wasn’t allowed to speak, did it?
I was determined
that no matter what happened,
I would remain faithful.
My good conduct had
a positive effect on the other prisoners.
Some of them started reading the Bible.
Quite often,
I couldn’t even get my turn to read it.
I didn’t swear,
and I kept myself physically clean.
This didn’t go unnoticed
by the prison officials.
One day, they said to me,
“Because you are morally
and physically clean,
we want you to be our head cook.”
That’s how I became their chef.
I constantly saw evidence of Jehovah’s hand.
The ministry was amazing.
There were months
when I served up to 120 hours.
I placed more than 100 pieces of literature.
Thanks to Jehovah,
I was able to stay in the full-time ministry
the whole time I was in prison.
This filled my heart with joy.
The thought at 1 Peter 5:9,
which says
that the entire association of brothers
is experiencing the same kind
of suffering I was, strengthened me.
I am confident that no matter
what circumstances we find ourselves in,
no matter who is around us,
Jehovah will never abandon us.
The day for my release finally arrived.
It was a complete surprise for my mother.
I hadn’t told her.
I will never forget that moment
when we were reunited.